One of the most important aspects of a child’s development is social interaction with their peers. This is sometimes difficult for differently abled children, who may be excluded many times from group entertainment due to congenital challenges. Many board games on the market require the player to roll a dice or flip a card which can be quite difficult for some students to do without external help, thereby limiting their independence. This is an issue faced by the students of John Chilton School, which caters to children with high level motor and mental disabilities. To address the issue, an assistive-technology board game, given the name "FlipAble", was developed. The game allows the disabled children at John Chilton School to play independently alongside their able-bodied peers. The key to the development of an adaptive game is the availability of different control units, to provide alternative controls in case an individual is unable to use one. FlipAble is a four-player pinball-type game with a range of controls such as Word Detection, Eyebrow Control and a Pushbutton. Each control is plugged into one side of the board game and when the child activates a control, the flippers on the corresponding side of the board move to push a ball around the playfield. The object of the game is to act as 'goalkeeper', preventing a ball from entering your goal. The player with the least number of goals is declared the winner.

To control their flippers, players have the option of several different control technologies: Word Detection (WD) Control, a Pushbutton, and an Eyebrow control unit. The Word Detection Control uses the Snowboy word detection software, triggered by the hotword ‘go’, to activate the flippers. The Pushbutton is a familiar device to the users as it is commonly used at the school. The Eyebrow control unit is composed of a Mechanomyogram (MMG) sensor and an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU). Together they detect when the player raises their eyebrow to activate their flippers. The flippers are activated by a central processing unit which allows current to flow through pinball-standard high voltage coils, powered by a central power supply. These function as solenoids and pull a plunger which induces the flipper bat rotation through a plastic coupling part.
The board game is supported by a metal chassis with electronics enclosed beneath a play field and with a ball return mechanism on each side. The playing field and the outer walls of the game are made of medium-density fibreboard (MDF). The ball return mechanism is necessary to automatically return the ball to the field once a goal is scored, allowing the students to play without an able-bodied assistant. Audio and visual feedback is necessary to include visually and hearing-impaired children. This is achieved through elements such as a score display LCD screen, LEDs which light up to signify the concession of a goal, and several sounds which signal the start of the game, the activation of the flippers, receiving a goal, and the end of the game.

This product is one of the first of its kind in the field of toys using assistive technology, as no similar prototypes were found on the market.
